In our previous lesson,
we discussed access from an identity and permissions perspective,
with respect to the AWS management plane.
When designing and deploying Cloud networks and infrastructure,
there are a few key questions to be asking related to security controls.
Which trusted networks will traffic to your Cloud environment originate from?
Determine specific subnets, servers,
and other infrastructure components that need to be accessed.
Which components in your environment will need network connectivity to other components?
Determine which ports.
An example would be a set of application servers that need to
connect to a database on port 5432.
Our security groups and network ACLs as specific as possible?
For example, allowing a specific site or block with
a /16 range is preferred over and allow all site or block.
Which components will be taking traffic from the Internet?
This is your attack surface.
Can these components be moved to private subnets so
that do not pose a risk of access attempts from the Internet?
How is access to the servers managed?
Are users managing keys and passwords themselves?
Are the servers hardened to prevent unauthorized access?
Have outbound traffic needs have been identified?
Can applications use private endpoints to reduce the need to access the Internet?
These are some of the things to think about when designing
a Cloud environment that needs secure and tight access controls.
Let's start with looking at methods we can use to
gain access to our Cloud instances and servers.